## Integration and Pathways to Belonging: Exploring How Location Matters for Refugee Resettlement in the U.S.    
    
#### Overview
Human migration is a common, yet often controversial phenomenon. Even when a newcomers' legal status is not a point of contention, their presence can challenge a range of views on identity, place, and belonging. America has been described as a cultural "melting pot", but what exactly does this mean? And how do we meaningfully examine how individuals and communities experience, promote, and challenge this "melting" as it happens? Countless books, documentaries, and dissertations have not exhausted all that there is to explore on this topic. Therefore, it is unlikely that a single shiny app can do it justice either. What this app _can_ do, however, is function as a resource for others who care about these types of questions. 

#### Research Questions
This project reflects one starting point for understanding this phenomenon. I focus on the experiences of a specific group of newcomers, refugee arrivals, to explore two general questions:    
  
_1. What are the origins of people who are admitted to the U.S. as refugees?_    
This directs our attention to data on who is entering the melting pot, so to speak. Why refugees, you ask? I zero in on refugees because U.S. federal policies, funds, and programs evidence a desire to help this population. For FY 2021, the federal government budgeted a minimum of <a href="https://www.state.gov/reports/report-to-congress-on-proposed-refugee-admissions-for-fy-2021/#ref13">$814 million dollars</a> to encourage and assist with integration into life in the U.S., paricularly for refugees and other foreign-born individuals seeking "shelter or aid from disasters, oppression, emergency medical issues and other urgent circumstances" (<a href="https://www.uscis.gov/humanitarian">USCIS</a>). Despite the fact that refugee admission ceilings have been at their <a href="https://www.migrationpolicy.org/programs/data-hub/charts/us-annual-refugee-resettlement-ceilings-and-number-refugees-admitted-united">lowest in history</a> under the Trump administration, as a country, we still spend a large amount of money and effort in this arena. An interest in the wellbeing of refugees is not only consistent with America's values, but also reflects my heart for refugee, immigrant, and marginalized communities.

_2. How might characteristics of refugee arrivals and the communities in which they live influence how well they adjust to life in the U.S.?_  
The melting pot metaphor has often been used to describe the social and economic integration of European voluntary immigrants to the U.S. in the early 20th century. But how relevant is this imagery for newcomers from Asia, Latin America, and Africa who are likely to face a different set of challenges? Here, I concentrate on _Somali_ refugees for a few reasons. First, the history of slavery and ongoing marginalization of people racialized as "Black" in the U.S. are two realities likely to create additional challenges to social integration for African refugees that European immigrants in the early 20th century did not have to face in the same way. Second, anti-Muslim sentiment that has grown and been emboldened by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks are more likely to effect the interpersonal experiences of Somali refugees who are largely Muslim. Overall, Somali refugees are more likely to racially, religiously, culturally, and linguistically differ from the people in the communities where they settle. 
